We learned about the basics of using axios with get and post.
Now one thing we do right now is we reuse the same base URL, like this one here,
actually we reuse the same entire URL since also users.json is the same in sign up and dashboard
component
but let's pretend that this would be different and that we only had the same base URL, though what
I will show you would also work if you copy everything.
What I want to show you is that you can set up a base URL when using axios,
let's do this in the main.js file simply because it runs as the first file before our component
code runs.
So here, I will import axios from axios and you could outsource the logic I'm writing here into a separate
file if you wanted to.
Now as I mentioned earlier, you don't need to and you can't use vue use here
so what do we do instead is we just access axios
and now if we want to set a base URL on axios,
you can simply access the defaults object. As the name suggests, this is the object axios ships with which
allows you to set up some default settings and the settings you set up here,
it could also be set up as request specific settings by passing a second or a third argument to the request,
this javascript object.
So there you could set up options for this specific request, here we're setting up global options which
will be applied to any request,
now what can we do on this defaults object?
A full list of things you can configure, it can of course be found on the axios documentation, there
if you scroll down, you'll find details about the request configuration you can apply.
I will focus on the base URL,
that is one key you can set up here,
you can set base URL with URL all being capital case characters and then you set this equal
to a string.
Here I will cut this code to cut the string,
so really remove it from my dashboard.vue file and enter it into this base URL in the main.js
.
and I'll also go to the signup.vue file and get rid of this URL here too,
so that in both files
I only have the path I want to access and since that's the same path, we could actually also extract
that
but I'll leave it there for demo purposes so that we don't just have empty requests here.
So we now get the base URL set up here and that's all we need to do,
as I mentioned earlier axios which you import here is the same shared instance across all your files,
so settings you set in the main.js file will effect the axios instance, use the dashboard sign up
or any other place in your app. So with that, we can go back to our application and we can already see it if I
reload,
we don't get an error,
well obviously we would get one if we would now target an invalid URL.
So that's the first important thing I wanted to mention,
you can set up configurations either on a request level or as shown here on a global level and feel
free to dive into the axios documentation to learn about all possible things you can set up here.
One common configuration I want to share with you is the configuration of headers,
there on the defaults object to make it or to configure it for every request,
you can also set up default headers,
actually you can add something to the default headers,
axios will always set up some default headers but if you want to pass some specific headers, you can
set them up here and axios will merge them. There on the headers,
you actually got the choice between a couple of header specifications or targets.
You can choose common to set up headers which should be applied to any request, no matter which type it
is, there you can then set up your own header by adding a new property like this,
for example the authorization header,
you're free to add any header you want and then set this to something,
this could be a good way to pass some generic token to the backend on every request.
If you got more specific read needs, you can also target headers but there for example just target get
requests by targeting get and then adding some specific header here,
so then you could also set up something like this.
With that in place, if we now go back to the application and I reload this page, you'll see it works as
before
but if we inspect the network tab here, what we can see is quite interesting.
There if I inspect this request to users.json and I go to headers, you can see that on the request
headers at the bottom, this authorization was passed
and since this was a get request, you can also see that accept was set to application.json.
That's very interesting and this is another cool way of setting some global config,
so overall the key takeaway of this lecture is you can set up configuration defaults,
you could also set all these things on a request level, on a per request level by passing it as an additional
argument to your request methods.
But being able to set up some global config can save you a lot of time and make your code easier to
maintain.